[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie state and
naga manchetti our headlines today
growing opposition to the idea of
so-called vaccine passports with claims
they could be divisive and
discriminatory
counting the cost of another holiday
weekend in lockdown the beer and pub
industry says that it will cost it more
than 300 million pounds
in los sales by staying closed for
easter
scotland becomes the latest uk nation to
relax covert restrictions as the stay at
home order is lifted
save our seals conservationists warn the
mammals are being put in danger by
people getting too close
good morning a whole round of fixtures
dedicated to one man
as mossy masoya continues his journey
back from career-ending injuries
his rugby league family showed just what
he means to them
and we'll be speaking to mossy a little
later on
and whilst we'll see some sunshine this
weekend it will be the possibility of
snow and ice
which may grab your attention as we go
through into monday join me for the full
easter weekend forecast here on
breakfast
[Music]
good morning it's friday april the 2nd
our top story this morning more than 70
mps and pears from all the major parties
have joined forces to oppose
the introduction of so-called vaccine
passports in england
which could mean people have to prove
they've had a jab to enter
some venues they say the move would be
divisive
and discriminatory the government says a
decision has yet to be made but the
prime minister is expected to give more
details about the next stage of lockdown
on monday
here's more from our political
correspondent ian watson
the government wants to reopen the
economy fully by june the 21st in
england
it's currently discussing whether proof
of vaccination or of a negative test
could enable pubs and entertainment
venues to open possibly without the need
for social distancing
when it comes to trying to make sure
that we give maximum confidence to
business and to
to customers and uh here in the in the
uk there are
uh there are there are three things as
your immunity
uh whether you've had it before so
whether you've got natural antibodies
anyway whether you've been
vaccinated and then of course whether
you've had a test
and so those three things working
together will i think be useful
but the idea of vaccination certificates
has united long-standing political
opponents
against them the former labour leader
jeremy corbyn and the former
conservative leader ian duncan smith
are amongst 70 cross-party politicians
who campaigned together to oppose them
calling them discriminatory and divisive
downing street says no final decision
has been made in their use
and the government described reports
that they could be trialled in theaters
and sports grounds
as speculation but in eastern monday the
prime minister will have some decisions
to announce
he's likely to confirm that restrictions
will be eased further in england on
april the 12th
allowing beer gardens to reopen as well
as non-essential shops
and he'll announce the results of his
global travel task force
this will set out how foreign travel can
resume countries are likely to be
categorised as red amber and green
returning from a red list country would
require hotel quarantine
amber home quarantine and green negative
covered tests
but exactly when foreign travel will get
to green light
it's still up in the air dean watson bbc
news
new rules to help pubs cafes and
restaurants reopen safely outdoors in
england in 10 days have sparked anger
from industry groups
from april 12th all customers will have
to sign in
on entry not just one member of the
group like before
some pub owners say the move will burden
the struggling pubs and staff
government says it's providing as much
flexibility as possible to venues
campaigners have begun legal action over
government guidance that bans older care
home residents in england from going on
visits outside the home despite
lockdown restrictions being eased visits
are allowed
in exceptional circumstances says the
government and it's looking to open up
more safe options here's our social
affairs correspondent
alison holt
after the toughest of years care homes
are slowly
cautiously beginning to reopen nearly
all residents have had at least one dose
of the vaccine
and they're allowed a single named
visitor indoors but government guidance
says a trip
out is still too risky for older
residents
and that's what's being challenged a
legal letter has been sent to the
department of health and social care by
john's campaign
which represents residents families and
friends
it argues that guidance in respective
visits out
is unlawful and that the ban on outings
by residents aged 65 or over
is in breach of human rights and
equality laws
it also challenges the need for
residents who have been out to
self-isolate for 14 days
saying vaccinations and testing make it
unnecessary
people living in care homes people who
are in the last period of their lives
were actually deprived of the
simple pleasures of going for a walk by
the river
going to a park going out
to see perhaps grandchildren playing
in a playground there's simple pleasures
which mean
so much in its guidance the government
acknowledges that trips out are
important for residents
but says it increases the risk of covid
getting back into care homes
alison holt bbc news
lockdown rules concerning travel in
scotland scotland are relaxing from
today the instruction to stay at home
now becomes stay local further changes
to lockdown rules will take place on
monday
with hairdressers and more shops
reopening
face masks are giving thieves more
confidence to steal that is according
to convenience store owners who say that
masks are also making it harder to
identify criminals
nine out of ten stores report an
increase in verbal abuse on staff too
sophia seth has more surgical masks and
gloves
but not as you're meant to use them this
man enters a tesco express store in
shoreham with a gun
and demands money although this
particular crime is not commonplace at
convenience stores
shop theft is we can't see their faces
all you can see is their eyes
apart their nose owners like nilesh
parrik in portsmouth
say that face coverings are making it so
much more difficult to detect
criminals thanks very much people just
take and run
that's it because they've got masks on
we can't see what's happening
we go back to the season cameras we
can't see their faces the stores like us
here
we go about three to four a week
nealesh and his wife looper have lost
twelve thousand pounds
just in shop thefts in the last year
nilesh also experienced a break-in last
november
four thousand pounds worth of cigarettes
were stolen
in basingstoke kashua patel has run
convenience stores for 17 years
he too has seen an increase in shop
theft during the pandemic
we believe that weighing the marks in
our shop has given the
customers confidence to actually steal
things more boldly
absolutely terrible we feel very
saddened he and his wife have also
experienced
verbal abuse when asking people to wear
face masks
say the f word or they might just say
that we're not coming back to this shop
i might shout
common things that are being stolen from
convenience stores are thing that things
that are typically easy to sell on so
things like alcohol meat
confectionery for some it'll be in tens
of thousands of pounds per year
this is not a victimless crime although
both cashio and nilesh have a loyal
customer base
they feel it's been the hardest year for
them
it's our livelihood at the day this
morning and basically you know
and basically we're upsetting that's all
it is sophia seth
bbc news
factory festival the national football
museum and bagburg castle are among
thousands of cultural organizations and
venues across england that will share
400 million pounds in government grants
and loans
the money is the latest being offered to
the culture and heritage sector to help
them survive and recover after being
forced to close during the pandemic
london zoo now it may still be close to
visitors but staff
have been enjoying the animals and not
becoming bored
by putting on some entertainment for
them so
zookeepers arranged an easter egg hunt
oh
for the meerkats and the squirrel
monkeys and they did it by placing
papi mache eggs in eye-catching colours
among the sand and rocks in their
enclosures
and of course there were rewards there
were treats inside
oh that's delightful isn't it that's a
happy that is a happy easter
i love an easter egg hunt
uh let's see time now is nine minutes
past six
matt will have the weather for us
shortly but first families
bereaved by covid19 have been painting a
vast
memorial wall in an outpouring of love
is opposite the houses of parliament in
london
the moving tribute features a heart for
every single loved one lost to
coronavirus
and they're aiming to hand draw 150 000
of them
tim muffett has this report
you'd never find another woman like her
she had a heart of gold she would help
anyone if she needed to she was my best
friend
i'm very lucky
violet died from covid last april
her granddaughter courtney still finds
it hard to believe she's gone
[Music]
like i'm still convinced i'm gonna run
down the stairs and she'll be at the
street door i'm still convinced
i'll hear from her
but this is it's therapeutic
each heart is individually drawn for
each person that
has obviously lost their life the first
hearts were drawn on monday
the aim is for 150 000 to be added
to represent the total number who've
died so far in the uk
with covid registered on their death
certificate
when you drew that heart for violet to
your nan what was going through your
mind
everything all the memories we had
together all the times we shared
my name was a proper london girl she
loved her city
so keeping my nan here she'd love it
not only is this mural opposite
parliament where it will be visible to
mps
it's also outside saint thomas's
hospital where boris johnson was treated
for a severe bout of covid last year
but organizers insist it's not a
political statement
but a memorial a striking representation
of lives lost
i lost my mother my dear sweet mother
just before new year's eve
very sweet sweet woman had a lot of life
in her yet
she was an nhs nurse most of her life
and then moved to mary carey
and worked there and she was also
samaritan just the sweetest woman
always gave more than she took it's a
memorial it's full of love it's full of
the people that are going to be
forgotten
[Music]
so neil you've already done a
personalized heart but you're doing
others as well
yeah why is that um well i think not
everybody can make it here can they
people have died all over the uk and not
everybody can get down
i'm lucky i only live you know about an
hour away so
come down and do as many as i can and
just doing it's been wonderful
just it's been horrible painful i've had
a few tears
but um helps
hand drawn with love for every heart
there's a family mourning a life lost
lost but not forgotten
tim muffet bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news